docs: dependency injection (#24)
spryker/oryx: docs/dependency-injection/dependency-injection.md

> # 1. What is Dependency Injection (DI)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What is Dependency Injection (DI)?
```

I'd go without numbers, but maybe docs team have diff opinion

> Dependency injection (DI) is a design pattern that provide loosely-coupled, maintainable, and testable code. It improves modularity, maintainability, and testability, and is easily customizable and extensible.

Reviewer: Let's add (on top of this) a small explanation what it means for the user:

- It allows to customise logic that is deep inside Oryx. 
- without this, it would mean large portions of the logic must be overridden
- without this, it would be tempting to create a lot of boilerplate, which we do not want
- this allows to override logic, while still be able to upgrade to newer versions of Oryx going forward

Reviewer: let's add also:
- why we do not use a standard DI package
- our DI is vanilla JS and can be used in other frameworks

Reviewer: part of the intro in next subsection, you might want to move it up maybe?

Reviewer: This is a fairly complex topic, I'd prefer to write it from the most important using topics:

1. high-level intro on what is DI
2. Describe with code example how to provide a custom service using DI
3. Explain how to use DI in components
4. Explain how to use DI in service
5. Define custom services
6. Multi-providers

# 2. Service layer in Oryx

In Oryx, dependency injection (DI) serves as the foundation for the business logic. By using DI to provide service layer, Oryx is designed to be easily customizable and extensible on every level, making it an ideal choice for projects with complex or rapidly-evolving requirements.

The goal of service layer in Oryx is to  abstracts all of the system functionality,  including query backend services,  data caching and reloading, state management, and reactivity.

DI is also utilized by many higher-level concepts in Oryx, ranging from adapters, normalizers,  HTTP interceptors, to authentication, product loading, cart management, and checkout process.

> ## @spryker-oryx/di package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Npm package
```

> The @spryker-oryx/di library provides dependency injection to Oryx applications, including a variety of useful utilities to streamline working with the DI. This includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The @spryker-oryx/di package provides dependency injection to Oryx applications, including a variety of useful utilities to streamline working with the DI. This includes:
```

> The @spryker-oryx/di library provides dependency injection to Oryx applications, including a variety of useful utilities to streamline working with the DI. This includes:

Reviewer 2: > provides dependency injection to Oryx applications

But not only to application for every other package and it can be also used outside Oryx framework.

- TypeScript models definitions (e.g. Providers)

> -  `Injector` - the mplementation of a DI container in TypeScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `Injector` - the implementation of a DI container in TypeScript
```

-  Functions used to set up and manage injectors (`createInjector()`, `getInjector()`, etc.)
-   Utilities that can be used to resolve dependencies (`inject` and `resolve`)

> In a typical Oryx application, much of the work related to setting up the DI container is handled automatically by the application orchestrator. However, the @spryker-oryx/di library provides a  set of tools that can be used to further customize and fine-tune the DI as needed.

Reviewer: should we explain that we only support 1 container?

> In a typical Oryx application, much of the work related to setting up the DI container is handled automatically by the application orchestrator. However, the @spryker-oryx/di library provides a  set of tools that can be used to further customize and fine-tune the DI as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a typical Oryx application, much of the work related to setting up the DI container is handled automatically by the application orchestrator. However, the @spryker-oryx/di library provides a set of tools that can be used to further customize and fine-tune the DI as needed.
```

# 3. Using services

## inject vs resolve

> There are two primary methods for injecting services and dependencies into components: `inject` and `resolve`.

Reviewer: what about:

There are two primary methods for injecting dependencies from the application container:
- `inject` – used inside services
- `resolve` – used inside (web) components

### inject()

The `inject` method is used to inject services from the current injector. This method can be used when the injection context is defined, such as in services at construction time or in provided factories that use `useFactory`.

For example, consider the following code:

> ```typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts
```

export class MyService { 
   constructor(protected otherService = inject(SomeOtherService)) {} 
}
```

In this example, the `MyService` constructor injects an instance of `SomeOtherService` using the `inject()` utility.

### resolve()

> The `resolve` method works similarly to `inject`, but it tries to resolve the current injector using context (by default globalThis). This method is suitable to use in components, especially in web components, where the injection context may not be defined at construction time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `resolve` method works similarly to `inject`, but it tries to resolve the current injector using context (by default `globalThis`). This method is suitable to use in components, especially in web components, where the injection context may not be defined at construction time.
```

For example, consider the following code:

```typescript
export class MyComponent extends LitElement { 

>    portected myService = resolve(MyService); 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   protected myService = resolve(MyService); 
```

## Injecting INJECTOR

In some cases, dependencies may be optional or resolved at runtime, making it difficult to inject them directly into a service. In these situations, you can inject the current DI container using the `INJECTOR` token, like in the following example:

```typescript
constructor(protected injector = inject(INJECTOR)) {}
```

With the `INJECTOR` token injected, you can use the injector's `inject` method to dynamically resolve dependencies at runtime. For example:

```typescript
someServiceMethod(field) {
	const template = this.injector.inject(`${FormFieldRenderer}-${field.type}`);
}

```

In this example, the `inject` method is used to resolve a dependency based on a dynamic token that includes the field type. Since the field type is only known at runtime, it is not possible to inject the dependency directly. Instead, the `INJECTOR` token is injected, allowing the `inject` method to resolve the dependency dynamically.

# 4. Defining services

In Oryx, we follow certain conventions for defining services.

## String-Based Token

Services are resolved using string tokens. For example:

```typescript

> export const CartService = 'FES.CartService';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export const CartService = 'oryx.CartService';
```

Reviewer: Let's add a recommendation that a project specific prefix should be used to avoid conflicts.

```

## Service Interface

The service interface is a plain TypeScript interface that describes the public API of the service. Here's an example:

```typescript
export interface CartService {   
  load(): Observable<null>;
  getCart(data?: CartQualifier): Observable<Cart | null>; 
}
```

Since TypeScript interfaces are lightweight, there's no overhead or tight coupling between the service definition (and its token) and its implementation.

## Coupling Token with Interface

To achieve type safety and couple the string token with a specific interface, we use a technique to augment the global `InjectionTokensContractMap`:

```typescript
declare global {
  interface InjectionTokensContractMap {

>   [CartService]: CartService;   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [CartService]: CartService;   
```

# What is Dependency Injection (DI)?

> Dependency injection (DI) is a design pattern that provides loosely-coupled, maintainable, and testable code. It improves modularity, maintainability, and testability, and is easily customizable and extensible.

Reviewer 2: > It improves modularity, maintainability, and testability, and is easily customizable and extensible.

3 `and` words is probably too much, suggest to rephrase.

In the context of Oryx, dependency injection allows users to customize logic deep inside the framework, which is particularly useful for projects with complex or rapidly-evolving requirements. Without DI, users would need to override large portions of the logic or create a lot of boilerplate code. By leveraging DI, users can override logic while still being able to upgrade to newer versions of Oryx going forward.

> One key advantage of using Oryx's DI implementation is that it is vanilla JavaScript and can be used in other frameworks as well. Although there are standard DI packages available, using Oryx's implementation ensures seamless integration and compatibility with its features.

Reviewer 2: > `Although there are standard DI packages available`

What do you mean by `standard` here? Maybe let's rephrase to `popular`?

Author: 👍

# Service Layer in Oryx

> The service layer in Oryx serves as the foundation for the business logic, with dependency injection (DI) playing a crucial role. By utilizing DI in the service layer, Oryx is designed to be easily customizable and extensible at every level, making it an ideal choice for projects with complex or rapidly-evolving requirements.

Reviewer 2: > making it an ideal choice for projects with complex or rapidly-evolving requirements.

it's almost the same phrase written above:

> which is particularly useful for projects with complex or rapidly-evolving requirements.

Author: 👍

> The main objective of the service layer in Oryx is to abstract all of the system functionality, including querying backend services, data caching and reloading, state management, and reactivity.

Reviewer 2: Should we describe service layer here? We have another section for it.

Author: It's mostly about describing the role of DI in Oryx, not describing whole service layer.

> Moreover, DI is employed by many higher-level concepts in Oryx, ranging from adapters and normalizers to HTTP interceptors, authentication, product loading, cart management, and the checkout process.

Reviewer 2: Not sure that everything listed are concepts.

Author: 👍

## Npm package

> The @spryker-oryx/di package provides dependency injection not only to Oryx applications but also to other packages and can even be used outside the Oryx framework. It includes a variety of useful utilities to streamline working with dependency injection, such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `@spryker-oryx/di` package provides dependency injection not only to Oryx applications but also to other packages and can even be used outside the Oryx framework. It includes a variety of useful utilities to streamline working with dependency injection, such as:
```

Author: 👍

- TypeScript models definitions (e.g. Providers)
-  `Injector` - the implementation of a DI container in TypeScript
-  Functions used to set up and manage injectors (`createInjector()`, `getInjector()`, etc.)

> -   Utilities that can be used to resolve dependencies (`inject` and `resolve`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  Utilities that can be used to resolve dependencies (`inject` and `resolve`)
```

Author: 👍

> In a typical Oryx application, the application orchestrator automatically handles much of the work related to setting up the DI container. Nevertheless, the @spryker-oryx/di library provides a set of tools that can be used to further customize and fine-tune the dependency injection as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a typical Oryx application, the application orchestrator automatically handles much of the work related to setting up the DI container. Nevertheless, the `@spryker-oryx/di` library provides a set of tools that can be used to further customize and fine-tune the dependency injection as needed.
```

Author: thanks! 👍

# Using services

## inject vs resolve

There are two primary methods for injecting services and dependencies: 

- `inject` – usually used inside services
- `resolve` – usually used inside (web) components

### inject()

```ts
export class MyService { 
   constructor(protected otherService = inject(SomeOtherService)) {} 
}
```

The `inject` method is used to inject services from the current injector. This method can be used when the injection context is defined, such as in services at construction time or in provided factories that use `useFactory`.

### resolve()

```ts
export class MyComponent extends LitElement { 
   protected myService = resolve(MyService); 
}
```

The `resolve` method works similarly to `inject`, but it tries to resolve the current injector using context (by default `globalThis`). This method is suitable to use in components, especially in web components, where the injection context may not be defined at construction time.

### One container by default 

> A typical Oryx application usually uses one global DI container, which is set up by the app orchestrator. This is currently the recommended approach for Oryx applications that utilize web components.

Reviewer 2: Maybe let's describe why we think it's a better/recommended approach?

Author: 👍

## Default Implementation

The default implementation is usually a class that implements the service interface. Here's an example:

```ts
export class DefaultCartService implements CartService { 
// implementation 
}
```

# Providing services

To use and inject services, they must be provided in the DI container. Oryx offers several types of providers:

-   `ClassProvider<T>`: Binds a token to a class constructor.
-   `ValueProvider<T>`: Binds a token to a value.
-   `FactoryProvider<T>`: Binds a token to a factory function.

You can pass a list of providers as an argument to the `Injector` constructor or to the Injector's `provide` method. However, it's important to note that providing services is only possible before the first usage of the DI container.

In Oryx applications, providers are typically grouped into const arrays and passed to the app orchestrator either directly or as part of feature definitions. By doing this, you can easily manage features with corresponding providers and their dependencies.

Here's an example describing how to use the app orchestrator to provide services as part of a feature:

```ts
export const app = appBuilder()

>   .withFeature(someFeature)

Reviewer 2: Maybe let's drop it, to focus on the example.

Author: hmm... ok.

```

With the `INJECTOR` token injected, you can use the injector's `inject` method to dynamically resolve dependencies at runtime. For example:

```ts
someServiceMethod(field) {
	const template = this.injector.inject(`${FormFieldRenderer}-${field.type}`);
}

```

In this example, the `inject` method is used to resolve a dependency based on a dynamic token that includes the field type. Since the field type is only known at runtime, it is not possible to inject the dependency directly. Instead, the `INJECTOR` token is injected, allowing the `inject` method to resolve the dependency dynamically.

# Multi Providers

While most dependencies in an app correspond to only one value, such as a class, there are situations where we want to have dependencies with multiple different values, for example HTTP interceptors or normalizers. However, it's not very practical to configure all these dependencies separately, because we want to access them all together at once. Therefore, we can use a special type of dependency that accepts multiple values, not just one, linked to the exact same dependency injection token. These are called multi-providers.

## Providing

> Providers which token naming is ended with asterisk (`*`) `[token-base-name]*`:

Reviewer 2: Maybe let's rephrase and resctructure it somehow? Why do we need to separate it actually into several patterns?

- creates multi providers with array of elements.

```ts  
[  
  {    provider: 'multi*',    useValue: 'a',  },  {    provider: 'multi*',    useValue: 'b',  },  {    provider: 'multi*',    useValue: 'c',  },];  
///  
inject('multi*'); // [a,b,c];  
```  

Providers which token naming is included with asterisk (`*`) `[token-base-name]*[token-specifier-name]`:

- creates single provider by token `[token-base-name]*[token-specifier-name]`.
- creates multi providers with array of elements by token `[token-base-name]*`.

```ts  
[  
  {    provider: 'multi*a',    useValue: 'a',  },  {    provider: 'multi*b',    useValue: 'b',  },  {    provider: 'multi*c',    useValue: 'c',  },];  
///  
inject('multi*a'); // a;  
inject('multi*b'); // b;  
inject('multi*c'); // c;  

> inject('multi*'); // [a,b,c];  

Reviewer 2: Isn't it just a duplication of previous example?

Author: simplified

```  

Providers which token naming is included with asterisk (`*`) twice (or more) `[token-base-name]*[sub-token-name]*[token-specifier-name]`:

- creates single provider by token `[token-base-name]*[sub-token-name]*[token-specifier-name]`.
- creates multi providers with array of elements by token `[token-base-name]*`.

> - creates multi providers with array of elements by token `[token-base-name]*[sub-token-name]*`.

Reviewer 2: We have `creates multi providers with array of elements by token` 3 times... and it doen't help to understand the concept as for me :)

Author: simplified

One key advantage of using Oryx's DI implementation is that it is vanilla JavaScript and can be used in other frameworks as well. Although there are popular DI packages available, using Oryx's implementation ensures seamless integration and compatibility with its features.

# Service Layer in Oryx

The service layer in Oryx serves as the foundation for the business logic, with dependency injection (DI) playing a crucial role.

The main objective of the service layer in Oryx is to abstract all of the system functionality, including querying backend services, data caching and reloading, state management, and reactivity.

Furthermore, DI is utilized by many higher-level elements and concepts in Oryx, ranging from adapters and normalizers to HTTP interceptors, authentication, product loading, cart management, and the checkout process.

## Npm package

> The `@spryker-oryx/di` package provides dependency injection not only to Oryx applications but also to other packages and can even be used outside the Oryx framework. It includes a variety of useful utilities to streamline working with dependency injection, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DI is provided by the `@spryker-oryx/di` package. The DI package is created for Oryx applications but can also be used outside the Oryx framework. It includes a variety of useful utilities to streamline working with dependency injection, such as:
```

- TypeScript models definitions (e.g. Providers)
- `Injector` - the implementation of a DI container in TypeScript
- Functions used to set up and manage injectors (`createInjector()`, `getInjector()`, etc.)
- Utilities that can be used to resolve dependencies (`inject` and `resolve`)

In a typical Oryx application, the application orchestrator automatically handles much of the work related to setting up the DI container. Nevertheless, the `@spryker-oryx/di` library provides a set of tools that can be used to further customize and fine-tune the dependency injection as needed.

# Using services

## inject vs resolve

There are two primary methods for injecting services and dependencies:

- `inject` – usually used inside services

> - `resolve` – usually used inside (web) components

Reviewer: usually? What other cases would we have? Can we drop it to not overcomplicate it?
